Under the leadership of Jesus,
the harvest work is being accomplished.
An important part
of supporting the harvest work
is constructing facilities
that are used to educate
and care for the great influx
of those “rightly disposed
for everlasting life.”
Therefore, an adjustment had to be made
to meet the organization’s growing needs.
Back in 2013,
the Governing Body concluded
that the existing arrangements
for providing facilities
would not be able to keep pace
with the needs of the organization.
Thus, we formed
the Worldwide Design/Construction Department
with the objective of consolidating
all of this work into one department
under the direction
of the Publishing Committee.
We had several goals for this new department.
The first was producing more facilities
in the most efficient and economical manner.
Second, we asked them
to look for ways
to simplify and streamline the work
so that projects could be delivered
in the shortest possible time.
Third, we wanted them to provide solutions
that were flexible
and could provide the best overall value
for the organization.
That would help us to adapt quickly
as our needs change.
In addition to Kingdom Halls,
Assembly Halls, and branch offices,
we need remote translation offices,
media studios,
and theocratic school facilities
around the world.
Over the past ten years,
how has
the Worldwide Design/Construction Department,
or WDC, been able to keep pace
with the accelerating needs
of the preaching and teaching work?
Our work especially benefits
from the continued application
of a basic Bible principle
found at Colossians 2:19:
“The whole body is supplied
“and harmoniously joined together . . .
and made to grow
with the growth that is from God.”
By remaining “harmoniously joined together,”
communicating and collaborating
with one another in unity,
we are in a better position to respond to
and support Christ’s headship.
Doing so enables us to experience
“the growth that is from God.”
Let’s now go behind the scenes
of a few recent projects
to see how a more flexible approach,
along with early and ongoing collaboration,
is leading to better results
—an evidence of Jehovah’s blessing.
We have been renting about 65 apartments
for the needs of the France branch.
But, sadly,
their quality was not consistent
and it involved much work to manage.
So our Branch Committee
considered developing new residences
on Bethel properties
instead of renting.
Currently, at the Central America branch,
we translate into approximately 80 languages.
Because we need to do translation work
into so many languages,
we currently require 66
new remote translation offices.
But getting these offices
requires a lot of work.
And at the same time,
we needed to keep supplying Kingdom Halls,
which are urgently needed in the region.
So the amount of work involved
in addressing both needs seemed too great.
Here in Brazil, we have a great need
for more men and women that can help support
the congregations and in the field.
Thankfully, we have many
young brothers and sisters
that want to expand their service to Jehovah
and have applied for SKE.
As a matter of fact, we receive between
2,000 and 2,500 applications per year.
The need for another permanent school
became very obvious.
When the WDC receives direction
from the Governing Body, we pray
for guidance, do our research, and consult
with local brothers.
Then we proceed
with an eye on where Jehovah’s spirit
is leading a project
or even redirecting it.
With what results?
In the end, following the recommendation
of world headquarters,
we ended up purchasing residential apartments
built by property developers
that we could easily sell
should our future needs change.
The Governing Body gave its approval
to have a group specializing
in providing these
remote translation offices.
The Project Development Group
communicates with the WDC.
The WDC then communicates
with different groups at world headquarters:
the Service Committee, the Writing Committee,
the Publishing Committee,
and the Translation Services Department.
The Project Development Group
also works closely
with the local translation team,
the Purchasing Department,
the Legal Department, the Service Department,
and with many other departments
here at the branch.
We saw Jehovah’s hand in that,
because it allowed us to move forward
with the work without disregarding
the great need we had in the region
for Kingdom Halls.
Well, we appreciated the good direction
we received from the WDC
to have a flexible approach
in searching for properties,
not just looking for property
in which we could build a new structure
but also for buildings
that were already available
that could be renovated for that purpose.
We were able to find a hotel
that fit our needs exactly,
both because of its location and its size.
The brothers received direction from the WDC
to use Bible principles in the process.
At one point, the negotiations
weren’t going very well.
The brothers took a break,
they said a prayer to Jehovah,
and they came back with Bible in hand.
They showed a Bible principle
to the owner
that showed that we want to be honest
in everything we do.
The owner was so impressed
that from then on,
the negotiations went very smoothly.
As a result, we were able to obtain
that property for a fair market price
and additional funds were able
to be used in order to extend that property
to have yet a third class
as part of the complex.
The new directions given
by the WDC Department
have been a real blessing
to our residential projects here in France.
Our branch has a long history
of theocratic construction.
However, never before
have the projects of this size
moved so quickly.
The Branch Committee
is impressed with the quality
of what is being developed and planned,
and we’ve come to appreciate
these new approaches.
We see the positive effects
of having the translation office
where the language is spoken.
But the fact that a place was purchased
and where it was built
(for that particular aspect of the work
they’re in the right locations
and they have the right equipment),
it makes it a lot easier
for the brothers to be able to do their work.
So being in these RTOs
is a blessing from Jehovah.
The new schools building
is designed to accommodate
more than 250 students
of the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
each year.
Certainly, a building dedicated for schools
is well worth the effort and the investment
of those that work on the project.
This greatly strengthens my faith
that when Jehovah desires something,
there are no obstacles that can prevent
his purpose from happening.
Well, we’ve certainly seen
Jehovah’s blessing
on this arrangement.
Good planning, communication,
and collaboration
are allowing us
to prioritize and expedite work
that directly advances the global preaching
and teaching work.
The Governing Body would like to assure
all of you dear brothers and sisters
of our deep love and appreciation for you.
We thank everyone
for all that you do to support us
in advancing Kingdom interests
during these exciting but challenging
final days of the last days.
When it comes to providing facilities
to support the work,
one size doesn’t fit all.
By being adaptable and responsive
to the needs,
the circumstances, the insight of others,
and the leadings of Jehovah’s spirit,
we show that we are following
Jesus’ leadership
and are thus “made to grow
with the growth that is from God.”
This is preparing us
for even greater building
and educational projects
in the Paradise soon to come.